Martin
s very common French last name is a patronymic from Mars, which is also the Roman god of fertility and war.
Petit
urprisingly, this surname means "small."
Garnier
le this name is well-known as a hair care and skin care brand, it's extremely common as a French surname as well.
Tremblay
s location-based name refers to someone who lives near aspen trees.
Dumas
this name sounds familiar, it's likely thanks to famous French writer Alexandre Dumas.
Rochefort
cribing a rocky terrain, this surname also corresponds to individuals from various locations sharing the same name of "Rochefort."
Bernard
atronymic coming from the given name of Bernard.
Anouilh
ning "slow worm."
Bardot
nch singer, actress, and model, Brigitte Bardot, is, by far, one of the most famous individuals with this surname.
Matisse
ench surname derived from the first name of Matthew or Matias, meaning "gift of God." It is an especially well-known name thanks to French artist Henri Matisse.
ted: 100 Cool Last Names
Lavigne
one with this last name was likely from a family who lived near a vineyard.
Beaufoy
 surname has a positive connotation, meaning "fair" or "good faith."
Allard
ing "noble."
Visage
 popular French surname means "face."
Monet
 almost impossible to separate this last name from the infamous, influential French painter, Oscar-Claude Monet.
Barbier
ccupational surname for a barber.
Escoffier
ing good—this surname means "to dress up."
Thomas
 patronymic is one of the most common French surnames.
Descoteaux
esponding to someone who lived in a hilly place.
Tautou
ch actress Audrey Tautou is especially well-known for her starring role in Amélie.
ted: 300 Unique Baby Boy and Girl Names
Cerf
ing "deer."
Granger
ccupational name for a farm bailiff, it's familiar in pop culture thanks to the Harry Potter character Hermoine Granger.
Ducasse
ndividual might carry this name if their family lived in an area near an oak tree.
Picard
 last name would apply to a person from the Picardy, a region of France.
Truffaut
ch film director François Truffaut was one of the founders of the French New Wave movement.
Couture
ccupational name for a tailor.
 Faucher
one who worked in agriculture as a reaper or mower might have this surname.
Abadie
 location-based name typically corresponded to someone living near an abbey or chapel.
Chevrolet
ing "goat-herder."
Tussaud
e Tussaud was a French artist known for her wax sculptures and now-infamous museum.
ted: 150 Unusual Baby Names
Blanchet
ved from the French word "blanc," which means "white."
Chapelle
rname used for someone who lived near a church or chapel.
Pelletier
ccupational name for a fur trader.
Legrand
ing "tall, large."
Serrurier
 occupational name would generally apply to a locksmith.
Travers
ccupational name for someone who collected tolls from travelers.
Cotillard
re likely able to recognize French actress Marion Cotillard in films such as Inception, Midnight in Paris, and La Vie En Rose.
Paradis
ch singer Vanessa Paradis shares children Lily-Rose Depp and Jack Depp with actor Johnny Depp.
Curie
rm of an Old French word meaning "stable."
Bain
ing "bath."
ted: 125 Gender-Neutral Names
Gauthier
 a meaning of "forest," this name typically applied to lumbermen.
Hugo
or Hugo is one of the most renowned French writers of all time, with works including Les Misérables, and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Chastain
ing "chestnut tree."
Fontaine
 surname referred to someone who lived near a spring or well.
Darroze
 three Michelin stars, French chef Hélène Darroze is a force in the culinary world.
Boucher
ccupational name for a butcher.
Trottier
 about fit—this name means "to walk fast."
LaRue
 last name corresponded to families who lived near a road or pathway.
oll to keep reading)
ted Stories
-last-names
of the Coolest Last Names to Give Your Book, Movie or Gaming Characters
ght of the Intruder' or 'Le vol de l'Intruder' 1991 directed by John Milius. (Photo by Sunset Boulevard/Getty Images)
r Brad Johnson Dies of COVID-Related Illness
o by Harry Benson/Express/Hulton Archive/Getty Images
king: Academy Award Winner Patty Duke Dies at 69
Perrault
ved from the common French first name Pierre.
Cadieux
that originated in the Middle Ages, this surname holds the meaning "little fighter."
ted: 200+ Middle Names for Boys
Bastarache
 location-based name referred to a household living on the corner of the street or at the edge of a settlement.
Desjardins
pographical surname meaning "from the garden."
Archambeau
ing "bold, daring."
Abreo
lligence must run in the family with a last name that means "wise counselor."
Hardy
lar French singer Françoise Hardy encompasses this surname meaning "bold, courageous."
Savoy
st name related to locational-proximity to the Western Alps.
Moulin
ing "mill."
Descartes
 Descartes was a French philosopher who invented analytic geometry.
Marceau
ch actor and mime artist Marcel Marceau was not only an influential entertainer, but part of the French Resistance during World War II as well.
Piaf
ing "sparrow," this last name is very familiar thanks to French singer Édith Piaf.
ted: 125 Middle Names for Girls
Corbin
tes to someone with dark hair, as it means "raven."
Valley
 surname could apply to someone whose ancestors lived near a valley.
Chalamet
cal surname refers to someone who currently or once lived in the region of Lorraine in Northeastern France.
Pillet
ing "stake" or "pile."
Lyon
 French surname means "fierce warrior."
Bonnet
ccupational name for someone who made bonnets.
Badeaux
ing "to gape" or "to be gullible."
Poirot
 job-related surname was connected to the grower and/or seller of pears.
Desrosiers
pographical reference to a family who lived in an area with roses.
Lambert
ing "land."
ted: 150 French Baby Names
Chapdelaine
 French last name would likely refer to someone who either made or wore a particular hat or cape.
Barbeau
rname connected to a family known for fishing.
Achard
 patronymic simply means "son of Achard."
Léglise
one with this last name would have likely come from a family who lived near a church.
Richard
ry common French last name which means "powerful, brave."
Debussy
de Debussy was an influential French composer.
Valjean
 Valjean is the protagonist of Victor Hugo's Les Misérables.
Satre
ccupational surname for a tailor.
Castillon
ing "castle."
D’aureville
 French surname holds the meaning "golden village."
ted: 250 French Girl Names
Dubois
one whose family lived or worked in the woods might have this last name.
Auclair
ing "clear."
Vaux
 surname corresponded to people who were from various valley landscapes in France.
De la Cour
e it means "of the court," some might be familiar with the name thanks to HarryPotter character Fleur Delacour.
Gainsbourg
e Gainsbourg was a well-known French musician.
Cartier
 occupational surname originally referred to someone who worked as a carrier of goods.
Dupont
pographical name corresponding to someone who lived near a bridge.
Pasteur
ing "pastor" or "shepherd."
Alarie
 about a powerhouse family—this surname means "all-powerful."
Montagne
raphically referring to people living or working in the mountains.
ted: 300 Unique Dog Names
Macron
d familiar? That's likely thanks to the current president of France—Emmanuel Macron.
Toussaint
ing "all saints."
Marseille
 would typically refer to someone who was from the village of Marseille.
Cellier
ing "storeroom," similar to "cellar."
Baudelaire
 French last name means "a short sword."
Aguillard
mily with this surname would likely have needle-making in their occupational history.
Vachon
ccupational name corresponding with cow-herding.
D'aubert
 surname is typically linked to the first name Albert.
Rousseau
ing "red-haired."
Durand